Essay Topic: Multiculturalism and Social Psychology
1. Structure and organization. 
(7-8):Content highly relevant to the topic and cover all issues; Thorough and clear analysis; Sections are interlocking and echoing with one another.
(5-6):Content consistently relevant to the topic and cover most issues;Analysis demonstrates good understanding;With good introduction and summary on top of a smooth flow.
(3-4):Content wholly / barely relevant to the topic but missing out some significant issues;Analysis demonstrates general / limited understanding;Flow of ideas is apparent but emphasis inconsistent.
(1-2):Less than half of the content not relevant to the topic and missing out most significant issues;Lack of analysis and have poor understanding of the topic;Little evidence of planned structure and lack of organization.
2. Clarity and soundness of argument.
(7-8):Exceptionally clear and logical;Demonstrate full understanding of concepts and theories.
(5-6):Demonstrates clear and logical argument;Shows signs of internalizing concepts and theories when applying.
(3-4):Some evidence of logical argument;Shows signs of basic understanding of concepts and theories when applying.
(1-2):Little evidence of logical argument;Unclear focus and meaning in content, and misuse of concepts and theories.
3. Collection and analysis of literature and information.
(7-8):Excellent collection of information and literature to support the paper content;References are recorded fully and correctly in APA-7 style.
(5-6):Good collection of information and literature to support the content of the paper;References mostly correct and in APA-7 style.
(3-4):Some evidences of effort shown in information and literature search;References are barely sufficient and not fully in APA-7 style.
(1-2):Little evidence of showing effort in literature and information search;No reference or largely incorrect capture.
4. Quality of writing.
(7-8):Superb use of language with appropriate word choice;No grammar or spelling mistakes.
(5-6):Good use of language with occasional good word choice;In a few occasions grammar or spelling mistakes are identified.
(3-4):Acceptable use of language with some problems of word choice;Grammar or spelling mistakes are detected.
(1-2):Barely adequate or inadequate use of language with problems in sentence structure;Many grammar or spelling mistakes.



